Enhance abstract skill with guidelines from style guides and examples (#4778)
theforeman/foreman-documentation: .cursor/skills/abstract/SKILL.md

Review and improve the abstract for this file. Write it if it doesn't exist yet.

## Definition of an abstract

An abstract is the first paragraph of the module.
It follows after the module heading.

> It is pre-fixed by the `[role="_abstract"]` AsciiDoc tag.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is prefixed by the `[role="_abstract"]` AsciiDoc tag.
```
No hyphen needed.

> Short descriptions help readers and AI-powered search tools find the information that they need and confirm that they are in the right place.

Reviewer: Inconsistency in terminology - abstract/short description - makes it harder to interpret correctly and AI might stumble.

```suggestion
An abstract is a short description that helps readers and AI-powered search tools find the information that they need and confirm that they are in the right place.
```

Author: Actually, our style guides use both as separate terms and that should be preserved (at least for now). I've changed the wording to clarify that.

> Abstracts typically contain the following information:

Reviewer: I hope AI will be able to pick up which modules are procedures.

```suggestion
Abstracts of procedure modules, typically contain the following information:
```

Author: Okay, now I see what you meant in your previous comment. I'd rather not complicate the skill by talking about four different abstracts; the description should be generic enough to apply to all of them, just like our [style guide](https://redhat-documentation.github.io/supplementary-style-guide/#_core_principles_for_writing_a_helpful_short_description) is. If there is a need to differentiate between abstracts of different module types, that's where the example section comes in.

I'll make some changes to cover this so that we don't need to introduce the differentiation here.

Author: > I hope AI will be able to pick up which modules are procedures.

At least the tools we have available do that without issues.

> - What the user must do

Reviewer: Or can do? Some procedures are optional or conditional.

Author: Updated

- Why the user must complete the action
- Where appropriate, an example use case

## Instructions

When reviewing or writing the abstract, follow these principles:

- Ensure the abstract explains the What and the Why as defined in the section "Definition of an abstract".
  - For the `What` part, state the action or feature clearly.
  - For the `Why` part, state the business value, benefit, or goal.
  - For the `Example use case part`, consider including in what situations a user might find the contents of the module useful.

>   - Do not simply repeat the heading of the module; build upon it.

Reviewer: Can we split this into 1) what is intended for all content types, 2) what is intended for procedures?

I would add instructions for concepts and references in a followup PR.

- Follow these user-centric language guidelines:
  - Avoid documentation self-referential language (for example: avoid "This procedure..." or "This module").
  - Avoid feature-centric language (for example: avoid "This feature...").
  - Use user-centric language (for example: use phrases such as "You can [action] to [benefit]", "To [goal], configure [feature]", "[Action] [what] to [why]").
- Follow these length constraints: 50-300 characters, 1-2 sentences, a single paragraph.

## Examples of good abstracts

> | Title | Preferred Short Description |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Module content type | Title | Preferred abstract |
```

| :--- | :--- |

> | Browsing hosts in {ProjectWebUI} | Find and categorize your hosts within {Project} to get a quick overview of your managed infrastructure. Browsing hosts helps you understand your environment and identify specific host types for targeted actions. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Procedure | Browsing hosts in {ProjectWebUI} | Find and categorize your hosts within {Project} to get a quick overview of your managed infrastructure. Browsing hosts helps you understand your environment and identify specific host types for targeted actions. |
```
etc.

| Cloning hosts in {Project} | Clone existing hosts in {Project} to quickly create new hosts with similar configurations. This streamlines deployment processes and improves consistency across your environment. |

> | Editing system purpose | Edit the system purpose attributes for your Red Hat Enterprise Linux hosts to help ensure they receive correct subscriptions and accurate reporting. This optimizes license compliance and management. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Editing system purpose | Edit the system purpose attributes for your {RHEL} hosts to help ensure they receive correct subscriptions and accurate reporting. This optimizes license compliance and management. |
```
We want it to use attributes.

- What the user must do
- Why the user must complete the action
- Where appropriate, an example use case

## Instructions

When reviewing or writing the abstract, follow these principles:

- Ensure the abstract explains the What and the Why as defined in the section "Definition of an abstract".
  - For the `What` part, state the action or feature clearly.
  - For the `Why` part, state the business value, benefit, or goal.
  - For the `Example use case part`, consider including in what situations a user might find the contents of the module useful.
  - Do not simply repeat the heading of the module; build upon it.
- Follow these user-centric language guidelines:
  - Avoid documentation self-referential language (for example: avoid "This procedure..." or "This module").
  - Avoid feature-centric language (for example: avoid "This feature...").
  - Use user-centric language (for example: use phrases such as "You can [action] to [benefit]", "To [goal], configure [feature]", "[Action] [what] to [why]").
- Follow these length constraints: 50-300 characters, 1-2 sentences, a single paragraph.

## Examples of good abstracts

| Title | Preferred Short Description |
| :--- | :--- |

> | Creating a group and adding a system | Group many systems together in the Edge Management application to manage them more easily. For example, you can more easily mitigate vulnerabilities and update systems that are alike. |

Reviewer 2: This example feels slightly off to me.

Author: Okay, let's just drop it.

  - Avoid feature-centric language (for example: avoid "This feature...").
  - Use user-centric language (for example: use phrases such as "You can [action] to [benefit]", "To [goal], configure [feature]", "[Action] [what] to [why]").
- Follow these length constraints: 50-300 characters, 1-2 sentences, a single paragraph.

## Examples of good abstracts

| Heading | Example abstract (procedure) |
| :--- | :--- |
| Browsing hosts in {ProjectWebUI} | Find and categorize your hosts within {Project} to get a quick overview of your managed infrastructure. Browsing hosts helps you understand your environment and identify specific host types for targeted actions. |
| Cloning hosts in {Project} | Clone existing hosts in {Project} to quickly create new hosts with similar configurations. This streamlines deployment processes and improves consistency across your environment. |
| Editing system purpose | Edit the system purpose attributes for your Red Hat Enterprise Linux hosts to help ensure they receive correct subscriptions and accurate reporting. This optimizes license compliance and management. |

| Heading | Example abstract (concept) |
| :--- | :--- |

> | Security considerations in Foreman | {Project} supports multiple security mechanisms to provide additional layers of protection. Implementing these security features enhances the overall security of your {Project} deployment. |

Author: ```suggestion
| Security considerations in {Project} | {Project} supports multiple security mechanisms to provide additional layers of protection. Implementing these security features enhances the overall security of your {Project} deployment. |
| Overview of authentication methods in {Project} | The authentication methods you can configure depend on the authentication source you are using. If the native authentication features provided by {Project} are not sufficient for your use case, use this information to decide which external authentication provider best suits your requirements. |
```

## Examples of good abstracts

| Heading | Example abstract (procedure) |
| :--- | :--- |
| Browsing hosts in {ProjectWebUI} | Find and categorize your hosts within {Project} to get a quick overview of your managed infrastructure. Browsing hosts helps you understand your environment and identify specific host types for targeted actions. |
| Cloning hosts in {Project} | Clone existing hosts in {Project} to quickly create new hosts with similar configurations. This streamlines deployment processes and improves consistency across your environment. |
| Editing system purpose | Edit the system purpose attributes for your Red Hat Enterprise Linux hosts to help ensure they receive correct subscriptions and accurate reporting. This optimizes license compliance and management. |

| Heading | Example abstract (concept) |
| :--- | :--- |

> | Security considerations in Foreman | {Project} supports multiple security mechanisms to provide additional layers of protection. Implementing these security features enhances the overall security of your {Project} deployment. |

Reviewer: One more example for concepts would be great.

Author: I know! I couldn't find any :laughing: :see_no_evil: If you find something, please do suggest it.

Reviewer: I'll try to find some.

Reviewer: I thought these might be acceptable. Auth methods are good. For gerund-ish concepts, this is all we've got.

```suggestion
| Security considerations in {Project} | {Project} supports multiple security mechanisms to provide additional layers of protection. Implementing these security features enhances the overall security of your {Project} deployment. |
| Overview of authentication methods in {Project} | The authentication methods you can configure depend on the authentication source you are using. If the native authentication features provided by {Project} are not sufficient for your use case, use this information to decide which external authentication provider best suits your requirements. |
| Creating custom repositories | Repositories hold synchronized or uploaded content for a product. Add repository definitions for custom Yum content, then synchronize or upload packages as required. |
```

WDYT?

Author: https://redhat-documentation.github.io/supplementary-style-guide/#titles-and-headings suggests that gerunds are not permitted in concept modules. So let's not use the second example you suggested. Two could be enough.
